Okay, we're gonna start today.
We, um, we've been having
technical issues with our videos
and so a lot of times our videos.
Cue and I'm know what's going on and
I'm like looking up and I don't know
where a timer's at, and I'm, I'm, I
don't know what to do with myself.
That's what happens.
See, things need to change occasionally
in your life so that you don't get
used to routine and comfortable.
I know that that's at least for me.
So, um, we're gonna go ahead and,
and jump in and get started today.
So if you haven't been with us,
we have been walking through
for a little while, at least.
Uh, the book of second Timothy,
we took a break during Christmas.
Uh, and came back into the new year
and did a few different messages.
But we are finishing, if you've been with
us, we are finishing second Timothy today.
Um, and as a church, we've, we've
walked through, um, a lot of books.
So Ephesians, first, Timothy, second,
Timothy, Jonah, a couple other ones.
No, we did not go through acts.
We started to acts, we started to
ax in our home group when we started
the church, but we never finished.
We got to like chapter
nine and we stopped.
So we did start that though.
Um, so today we should be
completing second Timothy.
And, uh, so just to kind of catch
you up a little bit on really a
little bit about this book, this is
Paul the Apostle writing to his True
Son in the Faith Timothy, and it's
kind of his last letter to Timothy.
Um, and a couple of things that
stand out to me with this, right?
His last letter focus on
encouraging Timothy to accept
and fulfill his call in his.
To endure suffering that comes along
with being a follower of Christ and to
deal with the corrupt false teachers
that were hindering the church in Eph.
And so he's coming to the end of this
letter and, uh, he begins to really list
a lot of names of people, and you're
gonna hear a lot of different names.
And as we begin to look at this, we
can't really deal with every single
name in the text, but we're gonna
highlight several of them and see.
, um, how these different people
affected Paul or were related to Paul.
But one of the things you're gonna
see here is that these people
were either, um, positive, uh, to
Paul, were encouraging to Paul, or
they were not encouraging to Paul.
And, uh, I've heard this quote
several times, and this is what
first came to mind when I read this
text, is that two true friends are
those who are walking into your.
when everyone else is walking out.
So true friends.
Are those walking into your life
when everyone else is walking out?
And so Paul is in prison writing this
letter, and he begins to describe
people that have walked out of his
life and he's beginning to describe
people that have walked into his
life and how important they were and
ultimately how important God was.
So let me just start with this question.
Have you ever had moments in your
life where you felt like that people
ab abandoned you, that you felt.
Anybody.
Okay.
A couple of you.
Yes.
I think a lot of us have
probably had that moment in our
life where we felt abandoned.
People have left us.
We felt all alone.
But let me just ask this question.
In those moments, did you have a
couple of friends or a couple of
people in your life that stuck
around and actually encouraged you?
I would say most of us would probably
say we've had those difficult moments
where we felt abandoned, but yet it seems
like God's placed a couple of people.
That were key to our lives.
In those moments, Paul would
say the same thing, and we're
gonna see that again today.
How he could relate with us in that.
And just a couple for you guys
even to know, for me, there's two
points in my life that are critical
where I felt like I was abandoned.
Number one, interestingly enough,
was before I gave my life to Christ.
Uh, and this is, this is where
you wonder, why am I a pastor?
Uh, I had started dating my wife,
Brittany, and all of her Christian friends
didn't like it, which makes sense, right?
I was not saved, I didn't
know Jesus and she did.
Um, but rather than staying around
and encouraging us to know the
Lord, they begin to abandon us.
And that actually kind of proved my
point of why I didn't like Christians
in the first place, uh, as an believer.
Uh, but there was one person that stuck
around out of her friends that I believe
was a key part of me coming to faith
in Christ because he stuck around now.
He didn't accept and, and agree
with the way we were living.
but he was still there as someone
who didn't ab abandon in us.
I believe that that person was critical
in my life to come into faith in Christ.
Another moment was when
I surrendered ministry.
You know, you would think that would
be an exciting time, but when you
begin to share with family and friends,
they tend to begin to be critical and
question why you would do that and
why you would leave your job, your
corporate world to go into ministry.
Um, and I remember
those days feeling very.
For something I thought was very good.
Um, so I understand this idea of being
abandoned and it's hard, but what I
love about Paul, and I'm gonna say this
and we're gonna jump into the text,
Paul will remind us, and it reminds
us in this text that the Lord stood
with him when everybody else didn't.
The Lord strengthened him and
encouraged him, even though there
weren't people there to do that.
And I believe we'll take that home
today as an encouragement to us.
So let's jump into this
text, second Timothy chapter.
We're gonna be starting in verse
nine, and here's what it says.
It says, make every effort again.
He's speaking to Timothy.
Make every effort to come to me
soon because Dimus has deserted.
Since he loved this present world and
has gone to Thessalonika, Christians
has also gone to Glacier Titus Tilia,
also Luke, or only Luke is with me.
Bring Mark with you for, he
is useful to me in ministry.
I have sent  to Ephesus.
When you come, bring a cloak.
Uh, that I left in tr as with
Carpus, as well as the scrolls,
especially the Parchments.
Alexander the Coppersmith did
great harm to me, and the Lord will
repay him according to his works.
Watch out for him yourself because
he strongly opposed our words.
At my first defense, no one stood
with me and everyone deserted me.
May it not be counted against them.
But the Lord stood with me and
strengthened me so that I might
fully preach the word to all the
Gentiles so that they might hear it.
So I was rescued from the lion's
mouth and the Lord rescued me from
every evil work and will bring me
safely into his heavenly kingdom.
To him be the glory forever and ever.
Then he finishes this book with
this Greek, Priscilla and Aquila,
and the household of vociferous
rais has remained at Corinth.
I left.
Trove Mesis.
I think this is what it is.
Sick at Mi Miletus.
Make every effort to come before
Winters greets you, as does Putins,
Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers
and sisters and the Lord be with
your spirit and grace be with you.
This is the moment I know if I ask
somebody to read this text, they
would say, no . Because everybody
re everybody when you say that, they
read quickly down and they go, I
can't say these words neither can I.
You're in the same book with
me, but we, we tried this.
So let's pray before we jump in.
So, Lord Jesus, thank you for this word.
And Lord, I just pray that this book
has been an encouragement to our church.
Lord, I pray that this text today will,
um, allow us to see deep DePaul's life
and the end of his life, Lord, and
see how you provided a few people.
And also, Lord, you provided your
presence to encourage him even
when he was in prison, even when
he was left by almost everyone.
Lord, I pray today that we leave out
changed by this text, Lord, knowing
that you love us, that you will
never leave us or forsake us, and
that you are always there with us no
matter what is going on in our lives.
And so, Lord, we just pray
this near Heaven name.
So we're gonna start by kind of
walking through this and, and, and
seeing the different people that
Paul was addressing and speaking to.
And so the first group that we're gonna
see is those who abandon or left Paul,
and I'll even describe it this way, those
who abandon or were sent out by Paul.
Um, and so we see in this first verse
where he's speaking to Timothy to say,
make every effort to come to me soon.
Well, there's a couple of reasons why
he wanted him to come to him soon, and
we're gonna see later on where he mentions
that winter is coming and he's cold.
And so he needs his cloak.
That's one of the things.
And so he also not only needs the cloak,
but he also mentions later on, uh, that
he needs, um, his scrolls, which we
would know as like the Old Testament
scripture and paper to write on.
And one of the pictures that I love
that Paul's asking for, obviously
he's wanting something to keep him
warm, but he's wanting God's word at
the end of his life and he's wanting
pen and paper so that he can continue
to encourage people, tell his last.
If that's not a picture of somebody
who is finishing his race, as he said
last week, he's finishing his race.
He's wanting to finish strong.
He's wanting to impact as many
people as possible, and I love that.
Those are the things that Paul
asks for from Timothy, but he also
says for Timothy to come soon.
because of another reason, right at
the end of his life, he started having
people that were leaving him or, or as
we see here, they begin to desert him.
And so we see DMIs was the
one that had deserted him.
Um, and some of them also left
for other ministry assignments.
So let's just dive into DMIs here.
He says this in verse 10.
He says, DMIs has, has
deserted me since he.
This present world, right?
If you go and look in scripture, Demus
was mentioned three times in the word,
and most of the time Demis was mentioned
alongside Luke and at times Mark as
co-laborers with Paul in the ministry.
He was valuable to Paul for many,
many years, and in this season,
dimiss decided to desert Paul to to
leave him and to go because he was
drawn away by the present world.
What would that.
and, and I begin to just dive in.
What would that mean?
And we know back, if we go back to chapter
three, we see that Paul mentions people,
uh, he says, as hard times come, this
is in verse one of, of chapter three.
But you know, there's hard times
will come in the last days for people
will be lovers of self and lovers
of money and boastful and proud.
And so what we see with DMAs is, this is
probably where he related, he began to be.
Focused.
Um, and we think about this, that
whenever we give our lives to
Christ, here's what we are told.
Uh, the two greatest commandments
to love the Lord your God with
are your heart, mind, and soul,
and to love others as yourself.
And I don't know about you.
Does anybody struggle with
getting that out of order?
With loving myself with all my heart,
mind, and soul, loving God when I have
time and others when it's convenient?
Okay.
Just me.
All right.
I'll preach to myself.
I can see how Demus could easily
get distracted by this, but
he didn't only get distracted.
He began to lean into it and run from
his commitment to Father the Lord.
And so when we think about this,
his commitment to the ministry
and to Christ became more than he
could handle because it conflicted
most likely with his personal life,
his schedule, and his desires.
And we think about this and I begin to
be a little bit sad for Dimus and this
idea of, cuz I know what he's heading
off into, I've been there before and I
wanna give you this quote by CS Lewis.
Lewis.
He says this, he says, aim at heaven
and you'll get earth thrown in.
He says, but if you aim at
earth, you'll get neither.
And the reason why I say this is Dimus
was going to be disappointed when he
began to pour his life into when he
began to follow the present world.
because what do we know
about the present world?
It will never be fulfilling.
Why am I saying that?
I've experienced it even
as a fall of Christ.
There's moments where I
begin to say, you know what?
I'm gonna prioritize this and
it's gonna be so important
to me cuz it's all about me.
And you know what it
has, it's let me down.
It has let me down.
And my life before Christ, I had been
let down a lot and so I just wanna
kind of lean into some of those, right?
So fulfillment.
This side of heaven will always.
Leave you wanting more.
Let's start with money.
I remember as a kid growing up
and a, as I remember, all of our
siblings, we wanted to, to have
more money than we had growing up.
And my parents did everything
they could to provide for us.
I'm so thankful for them.
But we always had this mindset, we're
gonna get great jobs, make a lot of money,
and be basically where we don't have need.
And, uh, I've realized that the more
money that I made, the more I needed.
And the more I desired for
more, and I was never satisfied.
So let me give you the opposite, right?
So more money.
And when we're thinking about this, the
worldly things will never satisfy us.
But Godly contentment will remind you that
you have more than you will ever need.
more than you will ever need.
I, I'm telling you
this, and this is funny.
I'm probably making about double
what I made about 12, 15 years ago.
Double what I made and
I'm still not satisfied.
What do I mean by this?
I'm still, it just doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter how much more money I
have, but I'll tell you this, the moment I
gave my life to Christ, it changed because
it was this idea of man, God has given me.
And wow, God has provided this.
And when we started, I always tell people
this, when we started tithing, when we
started giving as a family, God did way
more with the 90% that we got to keep than
the a hundred percent that we kept before.
And so I'm just giving
you one example here.
Money.
So here's another one cuz I know
everybody loves this power and control.
Everybody wants to have power and
control over their own lives to
make their own decisions, right?
But you'll always be left wanting more.
And I'll even tell you this,
when you think you have.
And then life gives you
a glimpse that you don't.
It's always frustrating, right?
And I know some of you've
experienced this, right?
Health, when you think, oh,
I can control everything.
No, you can't.
What about a job?
I mean, guys, you think our jobs
are all secure until the moment
you get brought in and, and all
of a sudden they need to cut jobs.
I mean, it's the same thing.
What about the economy?
I mean, we all know the economy was great
and then now it's bad, and then it's
great and then it's bad and it's like we,
we, we can't seem to control it, right?
All these things we think we need
that will provide comfort that
are worldly things that we think
about that Demis was going after.
The present world will all leave
us wanting more, but we know this.
Surrendering to God who is all
powerful gives us fulfillment
and understanding and peace, even
when we don't feel like we have.
I'll just tell you this, worldly
things will always end up failing you.
And I just really even feel a
little bit sad for Demus cuz
we don't know his full story.
So he begins to leave Paul and
think about this, Paul's in prison.
Paul's given his life to this ministry and
one of his good co-laborers leaves him.
But here's the cool part about Paul.
Not only do people leave him,
, but then he sends people out.
Think about this.
If there's people leaving you, aren't
you gonna wanna keep more of those,
more other, the people that are around
around and like, Hey, you stay with
me, you don't go anywhere, right?
No.
This is what you see.
This is what I love.
This part here, he says this.
He says, um, Christians has gone on to
Galatia and Titus Del Naia, and you think,
well, maybe they decided to do this.
I believe Paul sent them to these places.
So these were not abandonments.
. These were assignments.
These were not abandonments the they
were assignments by Paul, so that
ministry could continue growing despite
what was happening to Paul in prison.
Let me just tell you this.
This is Paul modeling for us
as a church to be ascending
church, I'm gonna say this again.
This is Paul modeling to us that we should
be ascending church despite those who
desert us or who's here, or who's not.
That's a, that's tough.
I'm just gonna tell you.
That is tough in ministry
to think about that.
But as a church, we've committed
to fall, live, serve and expand,
expanding God's kingdom by multiplying
groups, disciples, and churches.
If we are committed to that, it's going to
take sacrifice and it's gonna take sending
people when we don't think we have enough.
I mean, we've experienced
this even as a group.
We had the group that started as a
church, and then we start this church
and learn what do we do with this group?
So we started two and that
was difficult for a season.
And we're still trying
to figure this thing out.
I mean, we just started a
new one here in Hamilton.
How does this work?
Well, every time we leave a group to
go start another group, do you know
there's a sense in everybody's heart
of, I don't wanna lose this, but there's
a deeper sense in our hearts that we
wanna reach more people for Christ.
And so the sacrifice of losing some
of the, the deep relationships so that
we can reach more people are more, I.
. So Paul, even in prison, sends
people out to do ministry.
Cuz this is so important for us to hear.
Paul was willing to endure pain and
heartache, to experience God's kingdom.
MedU expand, man.
He models that for us.
He models that for Timothy and I think
that is just, it's so challenging.
. So we see this right first.
Those that abandoned Paul and
those Paul sent out or left.
But it really goes from bad to worse
because now we're gonna talk about
people who harmed Paul and deserted Paul.
Harmed Paul and deserted Paul.
I, I would love to just wish this was
a whole chapter about all these people
that hung around and just like high-fived
Paul and was at his trials, just, you
know, trying to beat down the doors
about release Paul, but in ministry.
More times than not, you're
gonna be facing some of these
battles that Paul is facing.
So again, let's look at those
who harmed him and deserted him.
Let's, we're kind of jumping
around here, but in verse 14, we
see here, he says, Alexander the
Coppersmith did great harm to me.
and the Lord will pay him according
to his works, watch out for him
because he strongly opposed our words.
So we don't exactly know what harm that
this guy did, but I'm assuming just as
we kinda look into this text a little
bit more, this probably had to do with
Paul's imprisonment where he was and the
reason why he was imprison and he was
telling Timothy, watch out for him cuz
you may join me cuz this guy is not good.
And so he harmed Paul and
that was obviously difficult.
Not only did he have people AB
abandoning him, but they harm.
. And uh, when we look at this a little
bit even deeper, look at verse 16.
He says that my first defense, so
Paul's in Rome and we know this, trials
don't just happen one and done, right.
It's multiple.
So he says that my first
defense, no one stood by me.
He didn't say, a few did.
He said, no one.
So the believers that he had reached
in Rome, the people that he had
been ministering to, had not shown
up to his defense to stand up with.
. And so think about this, Paul
is, is at the end of his life,
he's done a lot of ministry.
He's invested in a lot of people and
he didn't even have people there at his
own trial trying to help defend him.
But then we see what he says, and this is
something that I think is so important.
Somebody needs to hear this.
He says, no one stood by me
and everyone deserted me.
May it not be counted against them.
I mean, I'm pretty much
cussing people at that point.
Me, I'm, I know this sounds really bad.
Okay.
No, I'm not.
What I'm saying though is in that
situation, I think a lot of us
would wanna act totally different.
We would want to, to basically
pray to the Lord, you better
chastise them in the Jesus name.
I mean, you better do something.
But he says this, and here's
the reason why I think Paul can
say this, because Jesus was his.
Jesus was his model.
Jesus set the standard.
Do you guys remember Jesus on the cross?
And he is dying and suffering for
our sins so that we could be saved?
And here's what he says.
Lord, forgive them for
they know not what they do.
Paul's heard this before and
he's saying the same thing.
And so we look at this
and we say, well, who?
Why wouldn't they stand with Paul?
I would say this.
Maybe they were young believers,
maybe Paul understood that at
times people make mistakes.
And so he says, To not
count it against him.
And I think that is
awesome that he does that.
And it's a challenge to us that
there's going to be people in our
lives that won't show up in our times
of need, and we need to forgive them.
We need to, to understand and
not count it against them.
And so whenever I, I said earlier,
uh, if you've had people abandon you
or desert you friends in difficult.
We need to look at that from a, a
pure mind and heart and understanding,
um, that sometimes we don't
know what they're going through.
Sometimes we don't
understand their situation.
Um, and so it's, it's
difficult to see this.
So just to kinda see this, at the
end of his ministry, he didn't
give up right at that moment.
He's at his first defense.
Nobody's there.
Why wouldn't he just throw in the towel?
You know what, let me just recant.
I, I don't believe in Jesus.
. What if he just, he says, you know what?
I don't care anymore.
I don't care to live.
Just take my life now.
But one of the interesting
things was, Paul, is he didn't,
he didn't say, take my life.
Now, why?
Why didn't he wave in his faith?
I believe this is why.
Because there were still those
who supported Paul, and those
who supported Paul May be few in
number, but they were greater than
those of the many that rejected.
I'll just say this again.
There are so many people in our lives
that may leave us, they may not accept us.
They may reject us.
They, they may desert us.
We may send them out to do greater
ministry than we'll ever do.
But those aren't the
people that define you.
And the fact of like, oh, man, if they're
not here, it's, it's not, it's not good.
No.
It's the people who stick with you.
So there were stu, there was a few
people that stuck around with Paul.
Again, they may be few, but they're great.
So let's kind of go back here.
Who stuck around with Paul in verse 11?
We see this.
He says, only Luke is with me.
Only Lucas is with me.
If you know any of the story, Luke,
the doctor wrote, um, we got Luke
the Gospel and then we got Ax.
He wrote both of those books.
And in both of those books, obviously,
uh, he has a lot of history with
Paul, especially in Ax You'll Sea,
where he traveled a lot with Paul.
What we see here at the end of Paul's
life, Luke had not abandoned him.
That I think is so awesome.
It's that Luke stuck around
despite all the things that he went
through, and he was most likely,
most believed that Luke was the one
that would listen to Paul speaking.
He would write down these letters, and so
maybe Paul couldn't physically write these
letters, but Luke could write them for.
, I, I'll just tell you this, this is
a reality to me when we think about
the people that stick around, and
I want, before I jump even full,
more onto the more people that stick
around, I, I would say this, that
it's gonna happen in seasons of life.
Um, we moved here from Oklahoma to plant
this church and we had a ton of friends
in Oklahoma, and I remember like, it
seemed like the first six or eight
months I was calling these people all
the time, just checking in on 'em, seeing
how they're doing, how life's going on.
But here's what I found.
Their life's moved on.
and they weren't reaching back out to me.
And I had few and few and fewer friends
that knew I was doing to do great ministry
and, and it was gonna be difficult,
but it seemed like they just forgot me.
They forgot our, our family and our,
our church and what we were doing here.
And, and it began to be disheartening.
And then I was reminded there
was a few people left in Oklahoma
that would consistently reach out.
And this is before we'd
really made any friends here.
So y'all, y'all, I'm not
talking about you guys.
You guys have now become
that family for us.
But, but there was a few friends
and those are the friends that have
stuck around, have been key to us
at times when we've gone back home
to Oklahoma that we spend time with.
Why?
because those people mattered more to me.
I, I, I had to come to the point
that those people mattered more to
me than the people that had deserted
us, that had forgotten about us.
So I can see where Paul's
getting at with this.
So people just like Luke that hung around.
And here's another cool redemption story.
He mentions this to Timothy.
He says, Hey, make sure
you bring Mark with you.
So if you don't know much about Mark's
story, mark used to go on these missionary
journeys with Paul, and after that first
missionary journey, there's something
that happened, most believed that Mark had
kind of went back to his day-to-day life.
Maybe he did something
wrong in the ministry field.
And Paul says he does not
want to take Mark with him.
This is back in ActX.
So you wanna go read about that.
And so what ends up happening,
Barnabas and Mark go one way, and then
we have Paul and Silas go another.
And we don't hear about Mark anymore
until this moment where he says,
mark is valuable for ministry to me.
What happened?
What happened to Mark's story?
And I, I know the Bible a lot of times
doesn't give us a ton of clarity.
On some of these things.
So we begin to kind of imagine,
and I started thinking about this.
Mark went with Barnabas.
We know Barnabas was the
son of encouragement, right?
And so I'm guessing that in this travels
with, with Barnabas, that Mark began to
realize where maybe he had went off wrong.
Wh where he had maybe had
not followed the Lord away.
He needed to.
And Barnabas encouraged him to, to keep
trying, to keep getting better in his
faith and to keep going and, and to do the
work that the Lord had called him to do.
Maybe that was a season that Mark.
so that he would be prepared for the
day that Paul calls on calls on him.
Again, I love this redemption
story that Paul sees Mark as
valuable, even though there was
a season of Mark's life that was.
Not honorable, maybe to the Lord.
You may be that person in this room
wondering, are you valuable to the Lord
because of something that you've done?
Yes, you are.
And I think we see this story with Mark.
So Luke had not left him.
Mark was someone that was valuable.
Him.
He was asking for Timothy to
come to be a part of his life.
Right?
And then he says, and and goes on.
, uh, and he says about the Lord,
and I love this part here, right?
There's the few people we mentioned,
but then he says, the Lord stood
with me and strengthened me.
I I'll just tell you this, if
you don't have a Luke, maybe you
can't call on a mark and you can't
have a Timothy, go get your cloak
and papers and bring 'em to you.
I don't know If you don't have any
of that, I'll promise you this.
Paul reminds us.
The Lord will stand with you.
The Lord will st.
No matter what you're going through,
if there's, if there's something that
you're not gonna take from this message,
there's a lot of things maybe you're
not gonna take from this message.
I hope you take this part right here.
The Lord will strengthen you.
The Lord will never leave
you nor forsake you.
Paul knew that.
He says, the Lord stood with me and
I, I love this picture when we see
that he was so strengthened by the.
But how did the Lord strengthen Paul?
And this is something
that will challenge you.
Like all get out because I'm a selfish
person, which means this, whenever I
want the Lord to strengthen me, I want
him to strengthen my bank account,
my health and, and really when we
look at Paul's circumstance, he wants
to be outta prison, but he doesn't
say that the Lord strengthened him.
Any one of those three areas.
He actually strengthened him to do what?
He gave them the strength
to fill his calling.
And it says this.
It says that he might.
Able to fully preach the word and so
that the Gentiles might hear the strength
that the Lord gave him in prison was
to not get out of prison, but to make
a difference for the kingdom of God.
I don't know what you're going through
or what you've struggled with in the
past and who's abandoning you, but
I'll just tell you Paul's challenge
here, and maybe this is gonna be harsh.
The strength that you need
from the Lord may not be for.
, but the one that you might impact.
I think at times we, we selfishly
pray over and over again and I
tell you this, cast your cares upon
the Lord cuz he does care for you.
But when we, we pray, I believe that more
of our prayers should look like this.
A guy who would model the need of,
of God to literally heal him, take
him outta prison and, and change
his life, didn't care about any of.
He's a guy that said,
no, it's about others.
So the strength that God
gave him was for others.
And here's the cool part.
I don't have time to go to all of them,
but if you go back to the Book of Acts,
you'll see three different places in Acts
18 where the Lord, uh, strengthened Paul.
While he was in Corinth.
You'll also see in Acts
23, the same thing.
And then in Acts 27, whenever
Paul was on the ship and it had
wrecked, God encouraged him there.
So we see three different
instances in the Bible where it
says, the Lord strengthened Paul.
The Lord strengthened Paul.
This was not the first instance
At the end of his life, God
finally showed up for Paul.
God showed up for Paul
throughout his whole life.
So to me, if God will show up
for Paul, He'll show up for you.
Maybe somebody needs to hear that.
God will show up for you.
He will strengthen you.
He will encourage you whenever you
need it most, and I, I think this is
so encouraging to all of us, and it
should be right at the end of his life.
As Paul's concerned, not
for himself, but for others.
So as we see these last couple verses
here before we get to the ending, um,
in 17 and 18, uh, at the back end, he
says this, he says, so I was rescued
from the lion's mouth and the Lord
rescued me from every evil work to bring
me safely into his heavenly kingdom.
To him be the glory forever and ever.
Amen.
Ultimately, let me just kind of
summarize this as quickly as I possibly.
. Basically, this is what Paul's saying.
He knew that he would not be taken
one second earlier from this world
before his ministry was fulfilled.
Where do you see this at?
I want you to see this.
The Lord will rescue me
from every evil work.
Paul's life's not done.
What he's saying is, I'm in prison.
I know I'm at the end of my life.
He will rescue me from every evil
work and will bring me safely
into the kingdom of heaven.
In his timing.
That's what he's saying in his timing.
Why do you believe that?
Philippians 1 21, he's said
this in Philippians 1 21.
For me to live as Christ
and to die is gain.
and if you go into more of Philippians,
it's this idea of for him to die is
actually better cuz he gets to go spend
eternity with God forever and, and avoid
all the pain and suffering and all the
people that's ever ab abandoned him.
All that suffering that he said with,
he could avoid all that, but him staying
was for the benefit of the Gentiles,
the people that had never heard.
And, and I look at this and
I'm so challenged that Paul
understood this statement, and
you need to hear this statement.
You will not live a day longer, a second
longer than the Lord has planned for you.
And so this is what I, I
challenged so many times.
If you are breathing today,
if you are here today, God is
saying He has not done with you.
And so you know he's not done with you.
He's not done with working through you
so that other people can come to know.
I, I tell you, that's the most
beautiful thing that's been in my life.
After I gave my life to Christ,
and I begin to dive into his word,
and I begin to understand how the
Lord had provided so much for me.
I couldn't help but be sent out to go make
a difference for somebody else's life.
That's why I'm in Hamilton, Ohio.
If I wanted the easy life and to just
wait for the Lord to come back, or for
heaven to come to me, I would've just
sat in the back pews of where I got save.
And came every Sunday
and just enjoyed service.
That's what it would've done.
If it was all about me,
that's what it would've done.
But just like Paul, we fight just
like Paul, we suffer for the sake
of the gospel for those to hear.
So Paul says this to be all
glory to God forever and ever.
Paul never let the cares of the world,
the abandonment of his friends and the
laborers maybe that he had to hinder
him from fulfilling his ministry.
Neither should we.
These last few verses, I'm not gonna
really walk through, but he greets
all these different peop people and,
and tells Timothy to say hi for me.
Right?
That's basically what it is.
There's a couple people that are sick.
He's telling Timothy about,
make sure you take care of.
That's the general sense
of the end of this letter.
So there were other people that wasn't
in Paul's life where he was in Rome that
were still important to him as well.
But let me just kinda give you
these last final statements.
Paul's final farewell to Timothy
and those he was writing to seems
a little bit doom and gloom because
the majority of the things that we
talked about were difficult things.
People deserting him, abandoning
him, and even the difficult things
of sending people out of his
life, that seems difficult for us.
That doesn't seem
exciting to be a part of.
Um, but he spoke some amazing truths to us
and I think to Timothy, and this is what
he says, people will come and go in your.
But the Lord will never
leave you nor forsake you.
He will strengthen you and
stand by you no matter what
you're walking through in life.
So there's two things during an invitation
that I want to challenge you with.
Again, imitation is an opportunity
to reflect on what you heard today
and something for you to take
home, uh, and and to begin to live
out and to apply to your life's.
So these two things I hope you take
away from this section a Paul's word,
number one, fulfilling your calling and
purpose in life will come with sacrifice.
I'm gonna say this again, fulfilling
your calling and your purpose
in life will require sacrifice.
There's times where I think it's easier
to just talk about all the great things
and not recognize the difficulty that
will come in serving the Lord Paul.
Last letter and last words
tell us it's difficult.
There was sacrifice, right?
So it may seem, and it may be people
leaving you to serve somewhere else
and may be people abandoning you
that cause you a lot of suffering.
So when these times come and they
will let the Lord strengthen you,
maybe you need to hear that today.
Let the Lord St.
Be prepared for this.
Number two, God will and has, and if
he hasn't, he will give you a few good
friends and co-laborers who will stick
by your side through the thick and thin.
I think that's something
I've learned in Paul's life.
Paul did not do ministry alone.
He raised up leaders.
He invited them on
missionary journeys with him.
He suffered alongside them.
He.
What it was like to follow Jesus
and some of these friends stood
with him until the end, God will
bring those people around you.
Let me just challenge you with this.
Don't let the difficulties in your
life, don't let the enemy fool you into
thinking that everyone's abandoned you.
It's a lie.
Don't let the enemy fool you
that the Lord has abandoned you.
It's not.
Remember that the Lord has
provided this church, and this
is, this is just a reminder.
We are a church.
We are the body of Christ here
to bear one another's burdens.
So if you don't know the people around
you, I pray that you do because this
is where we need to be strengthened.
There's days where I'm gonna
be struggling and I need
somebody to come and lift me up.
And there's days where you're gonna be.
And you need me or someone else to come
alongside you and lift and encourage
you up, to let you know you're not
alone, that God still has a plan and
a purpose in your life to fulfill.
Fulfill amazing calling.
There's something I was mentioned in,
in invitation, and I mentioned it every
week, and I feel like sometimes it may
go on deaf ears because many people that
I know that walk in these doors at one
point has given their lives to Jesus.
You've, you've set a prayer, you've
committed your life, you've been
baptized, you, you've come to church.
And I don't ever want that to kind
of go over your head as though you
know, you're not speaking to me.
And the reason why I say that is I think
at times we can have a moment in our
life where we set a prayer, but we've
lived our life without full surrender.
And I'm gonna say this again.
There's sometimes where we've
said a prayer, but we've not
lived our life in full s.
And maybe that's you today.
Maybe that's you, where you understand
the truth of the gospel, but you have not
fully experienced the truth of the gospel.
I think days like today are a day
that you can repent and turn to
the Lord and say, Lord, no more.
I don't wanna live the second rate life.
I don't wanna live the life that
has so distracted me away from
experiencing your best for me.
And maybe that's you and I just pray
that today you repent of your sins
and you give your life to Jesus.
If you have already given your life
to Jesus and you've just walked away
for a season, I pray today that you
repent and you come back to him.
Cuz there is something amazing
on the other side of repentance
and forgiveness of the Lord.
Something beautiful that even me as
a pastor, I have to consistently go
to the Lord and ask for forgiveness.
And on the other side of that, oh man,
it's so, The burdens have been removed,
and I'm so thankful that the Lord
walks with me even in those seasons.
So as you take time during an invitation
to pray and seek the Lord, I pray
that today's word challenge you.
I pray that you seek the Lord
if there's any air of your heart
and it needs to, to, to surrender
and ask God to forgive you of.
And if you need to give your life
to Jesus and you have questions
about how to do that, if you need
prayer, I'm gonna stand in the back.
That's where I like to stand so
that you guys don't feel like I'm
up front and have to pray with you.
I'd love to talk.
To be able to pray with you and
encourage you as well in your walk.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, thank you so
much, Lord for this book.
Lord, I pray that those who are able
to be here for most of the messages
through second Timothy, Lord, I
pray that they have learned so much
that they have taken away Lord.
Um, just this understanding that you
are constantly working through your
Word, through other people to challenge
us in our faith to know you more.
To remember our calling and our faith
and our, our, uh, Lord, just, just
our understanding, Lord, that we have
a personal relationship with you.
I, I pray that we are encouraged
today, Lord, that you strengthen
those who are weak, that you encourage
those Lord who are struggling,
maybe who have lost friends.
Lord, I also am just encouraged,
Lord, by your word, and I pray that
we are all encouraged by your word,
that your presence, Is constantly
spreading in Hamilton, in this
community and around the world, and I
pray that we get to be a part of it.
And so, Lord, today, if there's someone
in this room that needs to surrender their
lives to you, I pray that they do it.
I pray if there's someone in this
room that needs to just say yes
to you in any way that they do it,
Lord, move only like you can and
we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.